CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

## Reporting Bugs

Please file bugs in the [GitHub Issue
Tracker](https://github.com/syncthing/syncthing/issues). Include at
least the following:

 - What happened

 - What did you expect to happen instead of what *did* happen, if it's
   not crazy obvious

 - What operating system, operating system version and version of
   Syncthing you are running

 - The same for other connected devices, where relevant

 - Screenshot if the issue concerns something visible in the GUI

 - Console log entries, where possible and relevant

If you're not sure whether something is relevant, erring on the side of
too much information will never get you yelled at. :)

## Contributing Translations

All translations are done via
[Transifex](https://www.transifex.com/projects/p/syncthing/). If you
wish to contribute to a translation, just head over there and sign up.
Before every release, the language resources are updated from the
latest info on Transifex.

## Contributing Code

Every contribution is welcome. If you want to contribute but are unsure
where to start, any open issues are fair game! See the [Contribution
Guidelines](https://docs.syncthing.net/dev/contributing.html) for the full
story on committing code.

## Contributing Documentation

Updates to the [documentation site](https://docs.syncthing.net/) can be
made as pull requests on the [documentation
repository](https://github.com/syncthing/docs).

## Licensing

All contributions are made available under the same license as the already
existing material being contributed to. For most of the project and unless
otherwise stated this means MPLv2, but there are exceptions:

- Certain commands (under cmd/...) may have a separate license, indicated by
  the presence of a LICENSE file in the corresponding directory.

- The documentation (man/...) is licensed under the Creative Commons
  Attribution 4.0 International License.

- Projects under vendor/... are copyright by and licensed from their
  respective original authors. Contributions should be made to the original
  project, not here.

Regardless of the license in effect, you retain the copyright to your
contribution.

Commit message:

Refer to Weblate instead of Transifex for translations.

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

## Reporting Bugs

Please file bugs in the [GitHub Issue
Tracker](https://github.com/syncthing/syncthing/issues). Include at
least the following:

 - What happened

 - What did you expect to happen instead of what *did* happen, if it's
   not crazy obvious

 - What operating system, operating system version and version of
   Syncthing you are running

 - The same for other connected devices, where relevant

 - Screenshot if the issue concerns something visible in the GUI

 - Console log entries, where possible and relevant

If you're not sure whether something is relevant, erring on the side of
too much information will never get you yelled at. :)

## Contributing Translations

All translations are done via
[Weblate](https://hosted.weblate.org/projects/syncthing/). If you wish
to contribute to a translation, just head over there and sign up.
Before every release, the language resources are updated from the
latest info on Weblate.

Note that the previously used service at
[Transifex](https://www.transifex.com/projects/p/syncthing/) is being
retired and we kindly ask you to sign up on Weblate for continued
involvement.

## Contributing Code

Every contribution is welcome. If you want to contribute but are unsure
where to start, any open issues are fair game! See the [Contribution
Guidelines](https://docs.syncthing.net/dev/contributing.html) for the full
story on committing code.

## Contributing Documentation

Updates to the [documentation site](https://docs.syncthing.net/) can be
made as pull requests on the [documentation
repository](https://github.com/syncthing/docs).

## Licensing

All contributions are made available under the same license as the already
existing material being contributed to. For most of the project and unless
otherwise stated this means MPLv2, but there are exceptions:

- Certain commands (under cmd/...) may have a separate license, indicated by
  the presence of a LICENSE file in the corresponding directory.

- The documentation (man/...) is licensed under the Creative Commons
  Attribution 4.0 International License.

- Projects under vendor/... are copyright by and licensed from their
  respective original authors. Contributions should be made to the original
  project, not here.

Regardless of the license in effect, you retain the copyright to your
contribution.
